Document code review practices and tips (#4845)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: doc/dev/code_reviews.md

# Code reviews

All code should be reviewed and approved by an appropriate teammate before being merged into the `master` branch.

## Why do we require peer code reviews?

Code reviews benefit everyone on the team, and the team itself.

For authors:

- Requesting a code review from one of your peers is motivation to ensure that the quality of your code is high.

> - Writing a good PR description develops your technical communication skills.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Writing a good PR description (and commit messages) develops your technical communication skills.
```

> - Having your code reviewed helps you learn how to write better code in the future because you will receive feedback about how your code could be improved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It can give you valuable insight into aspects of your change you perhaps have not considered (architectural, performance, etc).
- Having your code reviewed helps you learn how to write better code in the future because you will receive feedback about how your code could be improved.
```

Author: ```suggestion
- Receiving code review feedback can give you valuable insight into aspects of your change that you hadn't considered (architectural, performance, etc).
- Receiving feedback about how your code could be improved helps you learn how to write better code in the future.
```

For reviewers:

- Reviewing code from others increases your code literacy and empathy. You will learn new things from how your peers write code and you will be more aware of how to write code that is easier for your reviewers to understand

> - Reading PR descriptions increases your technical communication literacy and empathy. You will learn what makes a PR description effective and you will be more aware of how to write of how to write PR descriptions that are easier for your reviewers to understand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Reading PR descriptions increases your technical communication literacy and empathy. You will learn what makes a PR description effective and you will be more aware of how to write of how to write PR descriptions that are easier for your reviewers to understand.
- Being a reviewer gives you the ability to share knowledge you have that others do not. Every person, regardless of experience level, has both something to learn and something to contribute.
```

For the team:

- Code reviews increase the overall quality of our codebase by catching design and implementation defects before changes ship to customers.
- Code reviews increase the overall consistency of our codebase by spreading knowledge of best practices and eliminating anti-patterns.
- Code reviews distribute domain expertise, code knowledge, and ownership across the team so development can continue when people are unavailable (e.g. vacation).

## When is a code review not required?

We do not technically prevent PRs from being merged before being explicitly approved because there exist PRs that are appropriate to merge without waiting for a review.

Some examples:

- Reverting a previous change to solve a production issue.

> - Minor docs changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Minor docs changes.
- Auto-generated changes, such as when performing a version release, where a reviewer would not have anything of substance to review.
```

It should be obvious to any other engineer on the team from the PR description and/or diff that it was appropriate for you to not wait for approval.

> Here are some examples of unacceptable reasons to skip code review:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are some examples of reasons to skip code review that are NOT acceptable:
```

- "I promised that I would ship this to $CUSTOMER by $DEADLINE"
    - The customer expects the feature to work and be maintained. Code review helps ensure both of these things by increasing the quality and distributing ownership.
- "This code is experimental"

>     - If the experiment is a success and the code is useful, then it will be easier to have done code reviews incrementally than to expect someone to review the code after the fact. The latter rarely happens successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If the experiment is a success and the code is useful, then it will be easier to have done code reviews incrementally than to expect someone to review the code after the fact. The latter rarely happens successfully. (This being said, code review should not be a hindrance to experimentation when done correctly -- so if you feel that is the case something is likely wrong and it is worth discussing.)
```

Author: I am not sure what you mean by this edit. What is an example of code review being a hinderance to experimentation?

Reviewer: When I read this line initially, a thought of someone saying the following came to mind:

> I am writing experimental code and the code reviews are absolutely awful and slowing me down a ton and I don't feel like I am making any progress because of them. It makes me feel really bad that we can't just experiment with things and iterate quickly, but I see we even explicitly state this in our code review document as something we want to strictly enforce so I must be in the wrong.

The above is a good indication that _something else_ is wrong in such code reviews (e.g. maybe reviewers not being clear) and it would be good to direct _that person_ to talk more about this so we can improve.

My edit was an attempt to address the following, but I suppose not a good one given your comment 😜Any ideas?

Author: I am going to make the following improvements which I think should address your concern. Let me know if you have further comments here.

```suggestion
    - Our goal is to have a code review culture such that engineers who are working on "experimental" code still find code reviews valuable and worth doing (for all the benefits mentioned in the rest of this document).
    - All code that is in `master` has the potential to impact customers (e.g. by causing a bug) and other developers at Sourcegraph (e.g. by making it harder to refactor code). As such, it is in our interest to ensure a certain quality level on all code whether or not it is considered "experimental".
    - Assume that we allowed "experimental" code to bypass code review. How would we know when it is no longer experimental and how would it get reviewed? Either it wouldn't get reviewed, or an engineer would have to review all the code after the fact without a nice PR diff to look at or effective way to make comments. Neither of these outcomes would meet our need of reviewing all non-experimental code.
```

- "I don't have someone to review this code"

>     - It sounds like it is time for you to find a new person to distribute knowledge, expertise, and context to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - You should find a new person to distribute knowledge, expertise, and context to.
```

## What makes an effective code review?

> Read https://medium.com/@schrockn/on-code-reviews-b1c7c94d868c. It is spot on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read [this blog post](https://medium.com/@schrockn/on-code-reviews-b1c7c94d868c), which our team uniformly agrees describes how to make code review effective.
```

Author: ```suggestion
[This blog post](https://medium.com/@schrockn/on-code-reviews-b1c7c94d868c) effectively explains some principals which our team values.
```

The code author and code reviewer have a _shared goal_ to bring the PR into a state that meets the needs that motivated the change and meets our quality standards.

> As a reviewer, your job is to help the code author meet both of those needs. The helpfullness of your code review is measured at the author's ear, not your mouth.

Reviewer: > The helpfullness of your code review is measured at the author's ear, not your mouth.

I don't know what this means.

Author: Is this clearer?

```suggestion
As a reviewer, your job is to help the code author meet both of those needs. The author is the ultimate judge of the helpfulness of your code review so treat the author like your customer.
```

Author: Previous suggestions is too one-sided. I think I am just going to delete this.

```suggestion
```

Do:

- Take time to understand the context and goal of the PR. If it isn't clear, ask for clarification.
- Acknowledge what the author did well to balance the tone of the review.

> - Prioritize reviewing the overall design and structure of the code over smaller code syle issues. Only comment on the latter after you explictly approve of the former.

Reviewer: As someone getting review feedback, I appreciate review in all forms. If someone has small code style issues but not review on the overall design and structure, I would still like to know about it and not have them wait until they decide about the design/structure.

Maybe a better way to phrase this would be something like "make it clear which feedback is about the overall design and structure of the code, versus smaller code style issues"?

Author: > If someone has small code style issues but not review on the overall design and structure, I would still like to know about it and not have them wait until they decide about the design/structure.

It sounds like I didn't do a good job summarizing the "Consistent Granularity" section from the [linked blog post](https://medium.com/@schrockn/on-code-reviews-b1c7c94d868c). I'll think about how to improve this.

> - Make it clear which comments are blocking your explicit approval (e.g. use "nit:" prefix for minor comments) and approve if all of your comments are minor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make it clear which comments are blocking your explicit approval (e.g. use "nit:" prefix for minor comments) and approve if all of your comments are minor.
- If the author were to address all of your comments faithfully and you would be content, then you should also approve to avoid the author needing to wait for a subsequent review without reason (exception: you asked for fundamental or vast/large changes and believe those will need re-review by you).
```

> - When you are making comments on a PR, use a tone that is kind, empathetic, collaborative, and humble. You will notice a trend that this kind of communication is more verbose, but it is worth the effort. [Further reading](https://mtlynch.io/human-code-reviews-1/).

Reviewer: This is a good statement to make and is well-intentioned. However, I worry verbosity of communication here is being too prescriptive.

Over-communication can be good because it removes ambiguity but it also requires much more effort on the over-communicator's part and that increases the time investment of doing a review and subsequently the amount of time it takes to get a review. Communication is a two-way street and both parties need to be well-intentioned and able to understand that there is always some ambiguity -- otherwise we would just always hop in video calls to perform code reviews which is not what we want.

I will provide some alternative perspectives of interpreting your examples below to elaborate on this and the difficulty I see here.

Author: I am not prescribing over-communication. Do you object to the examples I provided? I was merely offering an observation that being too terse can result it misunderstandings.

What if I removed this observation and let each example stand on its own?

```suggestion
- When you are making comments on a PR, use a tone that is kind, empathetic, collaborative, and humble. [Further reading](https://mtlynch.io/human-code-reviews-1/).
```

Reviewer: SGTM

    | 😕 | 🤗 | Why? |
    |---|---|---|
    | You misspelled "successfully" | sucessfully -> successfully | Avoid using "you" because it can make the comment feel like a personal attack instead of just a minor correction. |

>     | Rename this variable to `betterName`. | Can we rename this variable to be more descriptive? What do you think of `betterName`? | Feedback that is framed as a request encourages collaborative conversation. Including your reason helps the author understand why and potentially think of even better alternatives. |

Reviewer: > Can we rename this variable to be more descriptive? What do you think of `betterName`?

This could easily just be:

> `oldName` -> `betterName`?

Or even better, a line change suggestion. The person receiving review will know by far the most common reason for renaming something is for better readability in some form, so it seems reasonable that the reviewer does not need to explicitly state that.

Author: You are right that this particular case could be improved using even briefer syntax.

There is still a principle here that I want to exemplify (requests are better than commands) so I will think of a better example.

>     | Can we simplify this with a list comprehension? | Consider simplifying with a list comprehension like this: $EXAMPLE | Provide examples when suggesting changes so the author doesn't have to infer what you mean (which might be difficult if you refer to constructs that they haven't used before). |

Reviewer: Writing examples takes time. As a reviewer I don't always have time to do this. I could give the author a hint at how I would like to see them simplify the code in the next 15m, or I can defer my review to +4 hours from now. Between those two choices, one is clearly superior. I would instead write here:

> Can we simplify this with a list comprehension? (I can provide an example of this if needed)

Author: That is a reasonable decision for a code reviewer to make but I would still maintain that a code review that contains an example (or link to an example) is a "better" (i.e. more helpful to the code author) code review than one that doesn't and it is appropriate to encourage examples within the scope of this document.

Some other thoughts:
- I think this is a "know your audience" situation. If you know that your hint will be understood by the author, then no example is fine. If the hint isn't understood then the author might have to spend 10 minutes searching for what you mean when it would have only taken you 1 minute to just type it out.
- If the code example is short, then I would always err on the side of including it as a suggestion so it can be applied directly. Making an opaque suggestion that is not understood and you have to clarify later can cost time overall.

I am going to update the wording to add some more of this nuance. What do you think?

```suggestion
    | Can we simplify this with a list comprehension? | Consider simplifying with a list comprehension like this: $EXAMPLE or $LINK_TO_EXAMPLE | Providing example code (using GitHub suggestions) or links to examples helps the author quickly understand and apply your recommended change. This is particularly helpful when the author might not be familiar with concept that you are describing. |
```

    | This code is confusing. Can you clarify it? | It was hard for me to understand $X because $Y, but I haven't been able to think of a way to improve it. Do you have any ideas? | Don't declare your opinion as fact; instead, share your subjective experience and try to offer a suggestion for improvement. If you don't have a suggestion, acknowledge that to show that you empathize with the difficulty of improving this code. | 

Don't

- Take longer than one business day to respond to respond to a PR that is ready for your review (or re-review).
- Have protracted discussions in PR comments. If it can't be settled quickly in a few review round trips, try discussing in person or on a video call because these mediums are higher bandwidth and encourage empathy. Then summarize the results in the PR discussion after the fact.

## Who should I get a code review from?

> You should get a code review from the person who's approval will give you the most confidence that your change is high quality. If you are modifying existing code, you can use `git blame` to identify the previous author and the previous reviewer becuase they probably will have helpful context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should get a code review from the person who's approval will give you the most confidence that your change is high quality. If you are modifying existing code, you can use `git blame` to identify the previous author and the previous reviewer because they probably will have helpful context.
```

If your change touches multiple parts of our codebase (e.g. Go, TypeScript), then you might need to get approvals from multiple peers (e.g. a Go reviewers and a TypeScript reviewer).

GitHub will automatically assign reviewers if there is a matching entry in the [CODEOWNERS](https://sourcegraph.com/github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/-/blob/.github/CODEOWNERS) file, but that doesn't necessarily mean that you need to wait for an approval from everyone. For example, if you are making a change to the search backend then you only need approval from one person on that team, not all of them.

> Use your judgement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use your best judgement and ask if you are uncertain.
```

# Code reviews

All code should be reviewed and approved by an appropriate teammate before being merged into the `master` branch.

## Why do we require peer code reviews?

Code reviews benefit everyone on the team, and the team itself.

For authors:

- Requesting a code review from one of your peers is motivation to ensure that the quality of your code is high.
- Writing a good PR description (and commit messages) develops your technical communication skills.

> - Receiving code review feedback can give you valuable insight into aspects of your change that you hadn't considered (architectural, performance, etc).

Author: I think bugs and regressions fall under "quality of your code is high" from the first bullet point but I can make that more explicit.

> - Receiving code review feedback can give you valuable insight into aspects of your change that you hadn't considered (architectural, performance, etc).

Author: Actually, I think this is covered by "Code reviews increase the overall quality of our codebase by catching design and implementation defects before changes ship to customers.". I put it as a team benefit because bugs and regressions affect more than just the author.

    - The customer expects the feature to work and be maintained. Code review helps ensure both of these things by increasing the quality and distributing ownership.
- "This code is experimental"
    - Our goal is to have a code review culture such that engineers who are working on "experimental" code still find code reviews valuable and worth doing (for all the benefits mentioned in the rest of this document).
    - All code that is in `master` has the potential to impact customers (e.g. by causing a bug) and other developers at Sourcegraph (e.g. by making it harder to refactor code). As such, it is in our interest to ensure a certain quality level on all code whether or not it is considered "experimental".
    - Assume that we allowed "experimental" code to bypass code review. How would we know when it is no longer experimental and how would it get reviewed? Either it wouldn't get reviewed, or an engineer would have to review all the code after the fact without a nice PR diff to look at or effective way to make comments. Neither of these outcomes would meet our need of reviewing all non-experimental code.
- "I don't have someone to review this code"

>     - You should find a new person to distribute knowledge, expertise, and context to.

Author: I'll apply the following edit; does this address your concern?

```suggestion
    - Ask for help to identify someone else on the team with whom you can share your knowledge, context, and ownership.
```

## What makes an effective code review?

[This blog post](https://medium.com/@schrockn/on-code-reviews-b1c7c94d868c) effectively explains some principals which our team values.

The code author and code reviewer have a _shared goal_ to bring the PR into a state that meets our quality standards and the needs that motivated the change.

> Do:

Reviewer 2: Is there a missing Do's and Don'ts section for Authors, rather than Reviewers?

One particular thing I think its important mentioning: PR size and reviewability really impacts the quality of the reviews you get, and how fast you get them. I know that first hand :D

Author: Good idea! I added a "What makes an effective Pull Request (PR)?" section.

- Take time to understand the context and goal of the PR. If it isn't clear, ask for clarification.
- Acknowledge what the author did well to balance the tone of the review.
- Make it clear which comments are blocking your explicit approval (e.g. use "nit:" prefix for minor comments) and approve if all of your comments are minor.
- If the author were to address all of your comments faithfully and you would be content, then you should also approve to avoid the author needing to wait for a subsequent review without reason (exception: you asked for fundamental or vast/large changes and believe those will need re-review by you).
- When you are making comments on a PR, use a tone that is kind, empathetic, collaborative, and humble. [Further reading](https://mtlynch.io/human-code-reviews-1/).

>     | 😕 | 🤗 | Why? |

Reviewer 3: I also like this table very much :clap:

>     | 😕 | 🤗 | Why? |

Author: Ah, you are right. GitHub requires an empty line before the table for it to render properly (fixed).

    | Why didn't you $X? | What do you think about doing $X? I think it would help with $Y. | A "What" question is better than a "Why" question because the latter sounds accusatory. Either the author considered $X and decided not to, or they didn't consider it, but in either case it is frustrating to the author if the reviewer doesn't explain why they think $X should be considered. |
    | This code is confusing. Can you clarify it? | It was hard for me to understand $X because $Y, but I haven't been able to think of a way to improve it. Do you have any ideas? | Don't declare your opinion as fact; instead, share your subjective experience and try to offer a suggestion for improvement. If you don't have a suggestion, acknowledge that to show that you empathize with the difficulty of improving this code. | 

Don't

- Comment on the details of the PR if you have questions or concerns about the overall direction or design. The former will distract from the latter and might be irrelevant if the PR is reworked.

> - Take longer than one business day to respond to respond to a PR that is ready for your review (or re-review).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Take longer than one business day to respond to a PR that is ready for your review (or re-review).
```
